---
layout: post
title:  "SSH to an Android device from a Linux system"
date:   2018-04-26
---

Several days ago, my friend Hao recommended me a very interesting Android app Termux. It's a terminal emulator and I found Python and git is available here! Maybe I can do something interesting with it on my cell phone.

However, the virtual keyboard on my phone is a disaster.
I don't think I can live with it.
It will be cool if I can access Termux on my cell phone from my laptop.
Fortunately, I found someone else tried something similar and I finally figured out how to do it.

1. Download and install Termux on the Android device.

2. Open Termux and install ```openssh```:
```
$ pkg install openssh
```
We can ssh into remote systems from this Android device after ```openssh``` is installed. However, extra setups are needed before we can ssh into this device from other systems.

3. It seems we are not allowed to ssh to the Android device using password, so we need to set up a key to login. An SSH key is necessary on the PC if it doesn't exist:
```
$ ssh-keygen -t rsa
```
Generated files are stored in ```~/.ssh``` by default.

4. Write the content in ```~/.ssh/rsa_id.pub``` on PC to
```~/.ssh/authorized_keys``` in Termux on the Android device.
We can download the key by ```scp``` from the PC.

5. Find username of the device by typing
```
$ whoami
```
in Termux and find ip of the device by checking ```System > About phone > Status > IP address```. Unfortunately, ip address is not fixed. We need to check it every time we tried to login.

6. Active sshd in Termux:
```
$ sshd
```

7. Connect:
```
$ ssh username@ip -p 8022
```

Now I can use my laptop's keyboard for my cell phone.
